---

title: "2018 Goals: Doing my thing"
published: true
author: Rene Rubalcava
pubDate: 2017-12-27
tags: geodev
heroImage: '../../assets/blog/2018-goals-thing/images/goals-2018.jpg'
description: I like to think I approach everything I do with a passion. Whether
  it be my goals, work, my family, my lifting, whatever it may be, I give it all
  I got. Is it perfect? Nah, but I don't do shit that's not worth doing for one
  reason or another.
---

I like to think I approach everything I do with a passion. Whether it be my
goals, work, my family, my lifting, whatever it may be, I give it all I got. Is
it perfect? Nah, but I don't do shit that's not worth doing for one reason or
another.

## This past year

These were my goals for
[2017](https://odoe.net/blog/2017-goals-hope-not-strategy/). Notice, I'm not
worried about resolutuions. I'm not going to wait for some arbitrary date to
roll around to change something I'm doing or start doing something new. If I'm
going to do it, I'll just do it.

Flying - I did lots more traveling, which means more flying. I'm finding that
the actually flying I'm ok with, but I still have anxiety ahead of time, I don't
know what that's all about, but maybe I'll fix that this year too. I traveled a
lot for work, but also had a great time traveling for fun, like a wedding in
Paris, France which was totally awesome!

Learning - I've gotten better with [Elm](http://elm-lang.org/), learned some
[Elixir](http://elixir-lang.github.io/) and I'm currently knee deep in brushing
up my [Haskell](https://www.haskell.org/). I even learned some more
[R](https://www.r-project.org/) and brushed up on my
[Postgres/PostGIS](https://www.postgresql.org/) skills. I hadn't used PostGIS in
a while and wanted to keep it fresh.

Blogging/Writing - 2017 also marked the release of my second published book,
[Introducing ArcGIS API 4 for JavaScript](http://amzn.to/2Cav60t). This was
originally a self-published book, but I was approached by APress to pick it up.
The main reason for this was so that I could get affordable print copies out
there. I had been asked about print copies in the past, but I had trouble
finding a way to make that affordable. I'm not blogging as much as I would like
and that just boils down to time. _But this site is my main blog_.

Videos - I've been doing more [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/c/renerubalcava)
videos this past year, so expect that ramp up in 2018. I actually did one month
where I did a video a day. Not easy, but a great learning experience. I also
released a couple of video courses via Packt,
[Using ArcGIS Online](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/using-arcgis-online-platform-video)
and
[Building JSAPI Apps](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/building-arcgis-cross-platform-applications-javascript).

Health - I was pretty steady for the first 6 months of the year in the gym 3-4
times a week. Progress was ok, but around the 6 month mark I wanted to see if I
could go to the gym every day. So I started going every day. I've pretty much
gone every day since. Except for days they're closed or when I travel, but even
when traveling, I was hitting the shitty hotel gyms. I'm doing more of a
powerlifting style, a conjugate system wtih 2 heavy days, 2 speed days, and
accessory rest of the days. I feel great, my lifts are up and I'm digging the
volume.

## 2018 and shit

### Blogging

This blog isn't going anywhere. I'll keep writing, even if you don't keep
reading. I've had people hit me up about blog posts I totally forgot about
thanking me for something, so I'm glad people find it useful. I'm considering a
marathon like I did with the Youtube videos where I do one month of _Quick Tips_
daily. That could be fun!

### Writing

Writing a book is hard. Maybe I'll do another one this year, but want to try
some other smaller things first. I am going to be doing a _FREE chapter_ for the
_Introducing ArcGIS API 4 for JavaScript_ book that will cover some newer
features that come out after the book was published. I have some ideas for some
smaller ebooks too, mostly free stuff.

### Videos

I enjoy making Youtube videos. I'll be making more. I don't really have a quiet
spot to record at home, so my recording time is limited to when I can find some
quiet time. But I'll take any suggestions for topics people want to see, maybe a
mini-series of videos! Maybe I'll do a Udemy course on something, _you never
know_.

### Health

I'm going to keep pushing and pulling as much weight as I can in 2018. I'm not
going to be making progress like I did in my 20s, but I can still put some of
the young guys to shame in the rack, so I have no plans to change this up for
now.

### Misc

I want to get better at some other programming languages. I'll keep learning
more and more JavaScript and TypeScript, that's a continual process. But I want
to really bring my Haskell game up, learn more Idris. I started on some Rust
shit earlier this year and really liked it, so that could be on my list
for 2018. I've got some Postgres learning material I haven't finished yet, so
that's definitely on my TODO list.

All in all, I'm going to keep working at getting better in everything I do. I
haven't been using all my tools at my disposal as much as I used to. I use
Evernote all the time, but I used to use Trello a lot, and I'm a fan for using
it as a task manager and [Kanbanflow](https://kanbanflow.com) to help estimate
and schedule my tasks.

I've got some other ideas for projects to work on in 2018, but I need to finish
up some _prequisites_ first. I've also been dabbling in my some non-geo projects
to see how useful they are, but that might be a post for another day or another
blog.

As usual, you can [sign up for my newsletter](https://odoe.net/blog/sign-up/) to
keep up to date with my latest projects and posts!

Thanks and keep kicking ass!
