---

title: Esri European DevSummit 2016
published: true
author: Rene Rubalcava
pubDate: 2016-12-07
tags: geodev
heroImage: '../../assets/blog/esri-european-devsummit-2016/images/devsummit_berlin_2016.png'
description: It's only the second day of the 2016 Esri European Developer
  Summit, but so far it's been a terrific week!
---

It's only the second day of the
[2016 Esri European Developer Summit](http://www.esri.com/events/devsummit-europe),
but so far it's been a terrific week!

## Living on the edge

I just so happened to get my passport the morning of my flight, so to say I was
_cutting it close_ is an understatement. The flight here was long, yes, _but
totally worth it_.

Berlin is a beautiful city, and I imagine even more so with the Christmas season
and lights on all the buildings. It's also incredibly cold here, the other
morning it was 26F and just _what the hell!_ I have however discovered gluhwein
and jagertee on every other corner to keep me warm.

## The conference

First of all, this venue is
[_insane_](https://www.axica.de/axica-frank-o-gehry-en)!

Day 0, which was Monday, a [gangster](https://twitter.com/geogangster) and I
taught an all day training class on version 4 of the ArcGIS API for JavaScript.
It was intense, it was _mind-bending_, and we covered some detailed material
that will be released in the new 4.2 version of the API due out later this
month. It was a lot of fun though and it was great to get to talk to devlopers
eager to learn.

Day 1, was the plenary. I had the honor of being involved in the plenary earlier
this year at Palm Springs and was more than happy to be involved for this event
and talk about the JavaScript API. Plenary was great, and I even got to see some
very cool stuff I don't work with on a regular basis, like the
[ArcGIS Python API](https://developers.arcgis.com/python/). The gentleman that
presented on this, Rohit, showed some pretty pwerful capabilities to work with
the API and services to run analysis on datasets. It was pretty damn cool.

Once plenary was done, I co-presented a session with
[Raul](https://twitter.com/hhkaos) of Esri Spain on frameworks and the JSAPI. If
you read much of my blog, you'll know I have a soft spot for frameworks. Those
feisty little fellas that are born everyday and can either fly or fly to close
to the sun. This went over really well and we had a really good turn out.

I also had a chance to do a visualization talk with a Guenter of Esri UK and we
were able to cover various considerations and capabilities for creating relevant
and compelling visulizations. I'm really no expert here, but I can help to show
you how the tools work. We were even able to talk about some of the new features
coming out in 4.2 of the JSAPI.

The [gangster](https://twitter.com/geogangster) and I presented on the awesome
parts of the ArcGIS API 4 for JavaScript this monring to the same room that was
packed for plenary and we filled about half of that size which is quite a few
people. There is definitely a lot of interests on the topic. We discussed some
of my personal favorites, like
[Accessor](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript/latest/api-reference/esri-core-Accessor.html),
[Collections](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript/latest/api-reference/esri-core-Collection.html)
and much more. We even looked at some features that will be newly documented in
4.2 as well some updates to widget development coming to 4.2 that I'm pretty
excited about.

## Socializing

One of the highlights of the week has been able to talk one on one with some
developers here in Europe. There has been some slight language barriers, but for
the most part we can get by. I spoke with an italalian gentleman where some of
my limited spanish helped the conversation along. I had a couple of interesting
questions from users that I've taken note of that I'll take back to the office
with me.

It's also been great to hang out with some of our international colleagues and
the geodev team. It's been a blast wandering around in the cold to find
something warm to drink!

There is still a couple of more days of the DevSummit this week, but I'd be more
than happy to return and do this again next year. If you're in Europe and have
been on the fence on attending, I would highly recommend it. It's a little
smaller, thus a bit more intimate, so you have easier access to the Esri
developers and speakers as we wander around enjoying the fantastic food and
lattes that are served here!
